Matthew Currier
https://github.com/fingerskier

SKILLS SUMMARY
  I've been using computers since I first watched my dad solder together a Zenith H89 CP/M machine when I was 4 years old.
  Wumpus was the catch of the day when we first powered it up.
  My first programming experience was a multi-plan spreadsheet.
  After that I graduated to BASIC, then C and Pascal and onward...

  Since I've worked on personal, commercial, and industrial systems from electronics, firmware, software, databased, and cloud services.
  I was on oilfield directional drilling service hand off & on for 10 years.
  I write (and read) music, books and code.
  Father of 5- husband of 1.
  My true passion is to create and help others do what they were made to do.

QUALIFICATIONS
  Linux Windows Engineering	
  HTML CSS JS TS Coldfusion	Pascal C Java
  Infrastructure Linguistics Data-Wrangling 
  Webdev MySQL Postgres SQL-Server
  Directional-Drilling MWD/LWD API/DNV	
  MS-Office VBA.NET	
  PLC/HMI	Industrial Automation GD&T IEC-61131-3	

 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Engineering  2017+ Houston, TX
•	Responsible for developing hardware and software for automating OsteoStrong skeletal therapy machines.
o	Created the database schema and systems for world-wide, distributed controls of OsteoStrong systems.
o	6 patent applications for technology, 2 issued / 4 pending.
o	Developed a self-service kiosk, full-stack of hardware and software, for OsteoStrong member performance assessments.
•	Responsible for implementing manufacturing processes and procedures to produce aforementioned products.
o	Responsible for logistics processes and procedures in delivering products to customers. 
o	Responsible for QAC testing and validation of products.
o	Instrumental in developing customer support system pertaining to this hardware and software
o Responsible for training support technicians.
o Handled day-to-day IT operations and cloud infrastructure.

Controls/Software Engineer	2014+	Houston, TX
Aker Solutions (became MHWirth (sold to MPO (sold to AFGlobal))); then Premier Coil Solutions
•	Responsible for developing advanced PLC automated control systems and standards.
o	Created automation controller function libraries for command-request processing, task queuing, sequencing, limit and tolerance evaluation and deviation, I/O processing, and myriad low-level functionality.
o	Created Hardware-in-Loop machine simulators for testing automation controller logic in a test setting.  This included Siemens, Wago, and PC libraries and interactive simulations.
o	Assisted in creating PLC-based mux system for subsea distributed control systems.  This includes functionality for direct-hydraulic, remote hydraulic, and mechanical systems.
•	Responsible for developing and implementing software design specifications.
o	Worked closely with different engineering disciplines to determine functional design specifications and create definition documentation.
o	Implemented controller logic, networking topology and scheme, and HMI framework.
o	Worked on a control system for robotic drilling rig machinery for MHWirth and automated drilling safety manifold system for Managed Pressure Operations.
o	Designed SCADA software for controlling and logging operational systems on land and off-shore drilling rigs;  including specifying instruments, historical trending, and minimalist controls.

Web Developer	2009+ 6yrs.	Paragon Web Solutions
•	Generally responsible for designing and implementing database schemas, domain-specific data formats and transfer specs, user-interface templating, and feedback logging and modeling.  This included working with clients to codify requirements and report on satisfaction of the same.
•	Implemented a charter school web application for tracking learning plans, family information, public website, hourly logging, calendar, expense tracking, grading, and transcripts.
o	This involved daily interaction with multiple subject matter experts to guarantee regulatory compliance, complete evaluations, and proper reporting.
o	Their system also generated multiple reports for administrators, families, and facilitators.
o	A document management system was integral to the system for verification of most records – to include scanned documents and electronic signing.
•	Assisted in architecting a document control system for a network of hospitals (Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth).
o	Helped to develop the database schema and file-system to facilitate change tracking and document storage.
o	Helped to define and implement the user interface to upload, download, and facilitate revisions of documents.


Directional Drilling	2005+ 8yrs.	Scientific Drilling
•	MWD electronics assembly and configuration.  This included survey measurement and logging tools with drilling fluid and EM media transmission.
•	Drilling and directional drilling utility software for reporting, well position, anti-collision, drilling fluid, and logging data.
•	Responsible for planning and on-site, hands-on supervision of Shell ERDD HLT project.
o	The second project involved drilling a 60 degree slant-well and three close pass-by horizontal wells to test oil-shale recovery methods.  The drilling targets were achieved despite several setbacks in drilling fluid composition, rheological considerations, and prototype drilling techniques.
o	The first project involved drilling 22 wells from a rectangular surface pattern to a sub-surface ring to test synthetic kerogen geomorphology.
•	Responsible for Anadarko gas-well surface program in Uintah Basin
o	This project involved drilling surface holes for gas wells on Anadarko tribal leases preceding production drilling rigs.
o	Surface wells ranged from <1 to >40 degree inclinations with high anti-collision risks and complex well paths.
o	We met a tight drilling schedule while adhering to performance and safety metrics.
•	Member of the Barrick Exploration mine-shaft freeze wall project; Elko, NV
o	This project involved two drilling rigs in close proximity making 36 wells in a ring which would be frozen and cemented to create a natural barrier wall in which a mine-shaft would be excavated.
o	This rheology was extremely challenging and was exacerbated by the tight tolerances (2’ spacing between wells); we also overcame many technological and client relational issues.
•	Led and organized teams and drilling packages
o	Teams were 2-4 persons with variant schedules and capabilities.  It was necessary to integrate skillsets appropriately and manage manpower as well as logistics.
o	Had to select and manage custom tools designed for each job: MWD/LWD survey and logging tools, rotary steerable systems, bent motors, drilling bits, and non-magnetic drill collar arrangement.
o	Consulted regularly on best practices for drilling parameters and drilling fluids.
o	Often required to build custom, no-notice reports for well engineers and on-site managers to aide in their reporting and understanding of the operations.


Nabors Drilling	2004+ 1yrs.	Rocky Mountains, USA
•	I worked as a rig-hand for NDUSA on rig #909 drilling natural gas directional wells in the Piceance Basin throughout western Colorado.
o	Performed manual labor to include rig floor equipment such as pipe-tongs and slips.
o	Partially responsible for maintaining drilling fluid properties by periodically adding chemicals deemed necessary by a supervisor.
o	Responsible for general maintenance and operation of the rig’s mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems.

ACS Online	1998+ 3yrs.	Grand Junction, CO
•	Responsible for creating necessary Medical Manager scripts for clients.
o	To include determining requirements for the software.
o	Also, working with other staff to acquire and install hardware and software solutions cohesively.
•	Responsible for refactoring several state reporting templates for pediatrics clinics.
•	Assisted in architecting and building medical office computer record systems.  This included specifying PC and server systems and networking gear.
•	Provided technical support for customers’ hardware and software: both over-the-phone and on-site.

EDUCATION
University of Phoenix
	Master of Science: Information Systems, 2003 - 2005

Mesa State College
	Bachelor of Science: Computer Science, 1995 – 2003
